---
layout: default
title: "b1 example"
---
{% include directory.html data=site.data.examples columns=5 section_breaks=4 %}

[example]: https://geant4-userdoc.web.cern.ch/Doxygen/examples_doc/html/ExampleB1.html
[geometry-img]: /home/assets/images/examples/b1/geometry.png


# Example b1
<hr style="height:4px;border:0;background:#4a90e2;">



<br/>

This example duplicates the [geant4 basic example B1][example]. It uses the **dosimeter digitization**
to store the accumulated dose on a detector.

<br/>

## Geometry
The geometry, shown below, is defined in `b1.py`. The world, named _root_, is a box; it contains _Envelope_, another box made of water.

_Envelope_ includes two volumes: a polycone and a trapezoid, named _Shape1_ and _Shape2_. These
are made from tissue and bone materials, common for medical applications and thus pre-defined in the Geant4 Material Database:

- G4_A-150_TISSUE
- G4_BONE_COMPACT_ICRU

{% include figure.html
src="assets/images/examples/b1/geometry.png"
caption="b1 geometry (rendered by pyvista)"
width="900"
%}

<br/>

## Physics List

`QBBC` is used by default, picked in the yaml file using `phys_list: QBBC`

<br/>

{% include notes/physics-list-note.md %}


<br/>

## Generator

The default kinematics is a 6 MeV gamma generated along the z-axis, randomly distributed in front of the envelope. 
This is defined in the yaml file:

```yaml

gparticle:
  - name: gamma
    p: 6
    vz: -15
    delta_vx: 4
    delta_vy: 4
    multiplicity: 1
```

<br/>

{% include notes/particles-note.md %}


<br/>

## Digitization

The _Shape2_ volume is associated to the `dosimeter` digitization (one of the available GEMC pre-built routines) 
in `geometry.py`:

```python
        gvolume.digitization = 'dosimeter'     
		gvolume.set_identifier('mydosimeter', 1)
```

The `dosimeter` digitization will create and accumulate the variables `etot` and `dose` throughout events in a run.

$$
\mathrm{dose} = \frac{\mathrm{etot}}{\mathrm{mass}}
$$

where `etot` is the total energy deposited in each event and `mass` is the mass of _Shape2_.

Here we use a custom string `mydosimeter` and number `1` to identify a sensitive element. 

The variables `mydosimeter`, `etot` and `dose` are saved in the output.

<br/>

## Usage

### Building the detector

Use the python script `b1.py` to build the detector. By default, the setup is stored in a SQLite file 
name `gemc.db`. Various command line options can define the database type, variations and run number.

<br/>

{% include notes/pyvista-note.md %}


<br/>

### Running gemc

The file `b1.yaml` can be used to run the setup. Add `-gui` to run in interactively:

```shell
gemc b1.yaml -gui
```

Modify `b1.yaml` as needed, in particular to add particles, control the number of threads, add output etc.

<br/>

## Output

Use the `gstreamer` option to select the name and format of the output. For `ROOT` output:

```shell
 -gstreamer="[{format: root, filename: out}]"
```

<br/>

{% include notes/output-note.md %}


<br/>

## Additional Notes

<br/>

