---
layout: default
title: "b2 example"
---
{% include directory.html data=site.data.examples columns=5 section_breaks=4 %}

[example]: https://geant4-userdoc.web.cern.ch/Doxygen/examples_doc/html/ExampleB2.html
[geometry-img]: /home/assets/images/examples/b2/geometry.png


# Example b2
<hr style="height:4px;border:0;background:#4a90e2;">



<br/>

This example duplicates the [geant4 basic example B2][example].  It uses the **flux digitization**
to save true and digitized information in the output. 


<br/>

## Geometry

The `b2.py` script imports the `build_geometry` and `build_materials` methods, that create the setup, 
from `geometry.py` and `materials.py` respectively.

The setup, shown below, consists of a cylindrical _target_ followed by six chambers (also cylinders) 
of increasing transverse size at defined distances from the target. 
These chambers, named _chamber\_\<index\>_ are placed inside a _tracker_ a cylindrical volume . 

Two custom materials are based on the B2 Geant4 example: `bepoxy` and `bcarbonFiber`.


{% include figure.html
src="assets/images/examples/b2/geometry.png"
caption="b2 geometry (rendered by pyvista). The tracker containes the chambers sensitive volumes."
width="900"
%}


<br/>

## Physics List

`FTFP_BERT` is used by default, picked in the yaml file using `phys_list: FTFP_BERT`

<br/>

{% include notes/physics-list-note.md %}


<br/>


## Generator

The default kinematics is a 3 GeV proton generated along the z-axis just before the target.
This is defined in the yaml file:

```yaml
gparticle:
  - name: proton
    p: 3000
    vz: -250
```



<br/>

{% include notes/particles-note.md %}



## Digitization

The _Chamber_ volumes are associated to the `flux` digitization (one of the available GEMC pre-built routines) 
in `geometry.py`. The copyNo is used to discriminate them:

```python
		gvolume.digitization = 'flux'  
		gvolume.set_identifier('mychamber', copyNo)
```

The `flux` digitization collects the energy deposited, positions, particle and track ids 
for eachh track passing through. The digitization saves each variables for each event into two separate data groups:

- true information
- digitized data



<br/>

## Usage

### Building the detector

Use the python script `b2.py` to build the detector. By default, the setup is stored in a SQLite file 
name `gemc.db`. Various command line options can define the database type, variations and run number.

<br/>

{% include notes/pyvista-note.md %}


<br/>

### Running gemc

The file `b2.yaml` can be used to run the setup. Add `-gui` to run in interactively:

```shell
gemc b2.yaml -gui
```

Modify `b2.yaml` as needed, in particular to add particles, control the number of threads, modify the output etc.

<br/>

## Output

The `gstreamer` option is used to select the name and format of the output. Two simultaneous streams are selected, 
`ROOT` and `ASCII`:

```yaml
gstreamer:
  - format: ascii
    filename: out
  - format: root
    filename: out
```

Since `flux` is a per event digitization, and events are distributed over threads, the output is also 

<br/>

{% include notes/output-note.md %}






<br/>

## Additional Notes

<br/>

